[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast sunday
morning roger johnson and rachel burden
here with you
good morning our headlines today cleared
of inciting interaction former president
donald trump is acquitted in his
impeachment trial
boris johnson comes under pressure from
a group of his own mps to end covert
restrictions by the end of april
rolling out to the under 70s more than a
million people aged between 65 and 69
are to be offered a coronavirus
vaccination
good morning in sport it's two from two
for wales as they edge past scotland in
a six nations thriller at murrayfield
to maintain their perfect start to the
tournament
good morning it's another cold start to
the day and we've got some icy stretches
around today but things are turning
milder and windier too i'll be here all
morning
with more details
it's valentine's day it's sunday the
14th of february our top story this
morning donald trump has suggested that
he will return to politics after being
cleared of encouraging his supporters
to ransack the capital last month 57
senators in total including seven
republicans voted to convict the
former president at his impeachment
hearing but that was
ten short of the minimum number required
our washington correspondent nomia iqbal
reports
donald john trump former president
united states
is not guilty as charged in the article
of impeachment
this wasn't a typical trial but it had
an ending we all saw coming
nearly half of the jurors the republican
senators had voted
unsuccessfully to stop the trial from
happening the motion is agreed to
there was a plot twist when it looks
like witnesses may have been called
but soon the drama concluded making it
the fastest impeachment trial in history
at the heart of it all was the question
did the then president donald trump
incite a violent mob to overturn the
election results on january the 6th
mr mcconnell not guilty mr romney
guilty only seven republicans said yes
along with 50 democrats that was more
republicans than expected
in this security footage video democrats
had spent three days presenting new
harrowing footage and audio showing how
mr trump not only encouraged rioters
but backed them when the violence was
happening all the senators had been
inside the capital that day
including vice president mike pence and
top democrat
nancy pelosi they were targeted by the
mob
and had to flee what we saw in that
senate today
was a cowardly group of republicans who
apparently have no
options because they were afraid to
defend their job
a lot of her anger was directed at this
man
top republican mitch mcconnell there's
no question
none that president trump is
practically and morally
responsible for provoking
the events of the day
no question about it the people who
stormed this building believed
they were acting on the wishes and
instructions
of their president she'll never take
back
our country tough words but he voted to
acquit mr trump on a technicality
saying it was unconstitutional to remove
a president who had already left office
in a lengthy statement donald trump said
the trial was a witch hunt
and that his make america great again
movement had only just begun
the capital was the crime scene and the
scene of acquittal
the stakes were high the republican
party can't let go
of donald trump even though he's no
longer in the white house
and as for the country it means in four
years time
he could run to be the u.s president
once again
nomi rick ball bbc news washington
now the vaccine rollout in england is
being extended to the
over 65s and the clinically vulnerable
from tomorrow
as the initial target of offering a
first dose to the top four priority
groups
is about to be reached the prime
minister said huge progress has been
made and that he's optimistic about
setting out plans later this month on
how and when
the lockdown will be eased our health
and science correspondent james
gallagher reports
with every injection we inch closer to
normality
mass vaccination started just under 10
weeks ago
and already more than 14 and a half
million people have received their first
dose
the rapid pace will continue and from
tomorrow more groups will be invited to
book a jab
this will include people aged between 65
and 69
as well as those who've been identified
as clinically vulnerable
this includes people with conditions
such as chronic heart or lung disease
diabetes profound learning disabilities
and some cancers
gps will lead the push to vaccinate
their clinically vulnerable patients
rather than the large vaccination
centers coronavirus is certainly going
to be with us for some time to come
we already have nearly 20 000 people
still in our hospitals
uh suffering the consequences of this
virus so
the key thing is in the months to come
we get everybody vaccinated
who's eligible for the vaccine and we
start to protect society
against this disease
delicious there will soon be big
decisions to make
the level of infection in the uk is
falling yet it remains high
but as more of us gain some protection
from covid through vaccination
it will give politicians the space to
begin easing restrictions
starting with uh with schools we very
much hope
on march the 8th that's got to be the
priority our children's
education our kids education is the
number one priority but then
working forwards to getting
non-essential retail
open as well and then in due course as
and when we can
prudently and cautiously of course we
want to be
opening hospitality as well the prime
minister is expected to reveal his
roadmap
out of lockdown by the end of the month
james gallagher
bbc news let's talk to our political
correspondent nick earley joins us this
morning from
our central london newsroom nick we're
talking about vaccines there and
the success that the government says
they've had with the vaccine rollout is
now causing a bit of increased pressure
on the prime minister
from the back benches this morning i
think that's right morning
roger the the problem that the
government has
is that as the vaccines are rolled out
and as things seem to be going pretty
well
they're getting more pressure from tory
mps to
detail how society might get back to
something
approaching normal and how the
restrictions might be lifted so
this morning we have the covered
recovery group which is
around 60 tory mps writing to
the prime minister saying you need to
get on with it 8th of march schools
definitely need to reopen in england
we also want to see pubs open by
easter and then by the end of april when
the top nine most at-risk categories so
that's
everyone over 50. they once they've been
vaccinated
this group want all legal restrictions
lifted
completely so boris johnson is going to
get a lot of that pressure
i think over the next few days he
listens to these mps because
he's been quite close to them
politically in the past but it's also
worth just bearing in mind
boris johnson's been quite cautious over
the last few weeks he doesn't want to
end up in a position where he's
opening up again only to lock down again
and he's also getting pressure from a
lot of the scientists
to go slowly to be cautious and do this
in stages
so there's a lot to weigh up over the
next few days okay nick thanks very much
nick hurdley
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news